```json
{
    "date"   : "2013-04-08"
  , "title"  : "Ender CLI v1.0 has landed"
  , "author" : "Rod Vagg"
}
```

It's been a full year in the making, but version *1.0.0* of the Ender command-line interface (<b>CLI</b>) was just pushed to npm and is now ready to augment your frontend-building awesomeness.

If you don't have Ender installed on your computer, you'll first need to install [Node](http://nodejs.org/) which comes with **npm** (the Node Package Manager). Once you have npm installed, you can install Ender:

```sh
$ npm install ender -g # the -g will install `ender` as a global command
```

If you already have Ender installed, then you can upgrade it with:

```sh
$ npm upgrade ender -g
```

### What's in this baby?

The Ender CLI has been totally rewritten, but the commands are the same as v0.8 and prior. We had big plans for new features but other priorities caught up with us so we decided to just ship it when it was stable!

The CLI code now has a huge suite of tests and the code is a lot more solid than the previous CLI. More importantly, it's much more modular and gives us a ton of flexibility to extend and add the features that we really want for our own build processes.

The main themes of this release are:

 * **Better CommonJS support**: We're not there yet but we're close. We want Ender to help you build & package modular components around the CommonJS-style that you find in Node.js. We have some exciting stuff on this front to come in the next few releases.

 * **Stability and predictability**: For example, when you run `ender build` and associated commands, your packages are bundled *in the order that you request them* and the dependencies are also ordered so that a dependency will always appear before its dependant.

 * **Flexibility for package authors**: The *package.json* descriptor has become a lot more clever for Ender packages. It's now also much easier to share packages between Node and the browser by extending the descriptor with an `"ender"` specific key.

We promise not to sit on code for so long again, expect to see awesome new features appear in v1.1 and beyond.

### More information?

For now you can find a lot of information in the CLI help, start with:

```sh
$ ender help
```

There are more advanced features for package authors and we'll try and document them here in the coming weeks. Feel free to bug us on <i>#enderjs</i> on Freenode, or ping <a href="https://twitter.com/ender">@ender</a> on Twitter, we're listening!

---------
